Functions are pretty straightforward.
And mostly if you're coming from
JavaScript, it's just the same, but
without the function keyword, okay?
So we just write the function.
Something that we have is an implicit
return type that is empty here.
For example,
you can explicitly specify that you need
to return something from this function.
You can use void to should say
that I'm not returning anything.
And that's the default operation
when you don't specify the type, or
you can specify the type
that you want to return.
For example, I'm going to return a string.
This is similar to Java or
to C, C++ as well.
You put the type that you'll return
before the name of the function, okay?
Does it makes sense?.
And of course, if you have a return type,
you must return something from the type,
if not, it's not gonna work.
It's not going to compile.
So far, so good, I guess.
What about arguments?
Well, arguments work like this.
We use the type as well.
We cannot use var here,
because it needs to know the type of
the argument that you're expecting, okay?
So that's the simple way
to create the sum function.
It receives two integers and
return an operation over that integer.
Remember, this is the return type.
So what you are returning
actually must be of that type.
This is new, something that have that
is the ability to define named arguments.
So what is the idea?
The idea is that I can create another
version of the same variable, for example,
asking something like this.
I can say that I want this argument
should be named as a and b.
They are, by default, optional, but
if I want them to make mandatory,
I can apply a require property first.
I know that this seems weird,
so let's create one here, so
we can understand what's going on.
So, for example, I can have here
a function that will print a customer.
And let's say that the customer
will receive the name.
So I have a string name, and
it has an age or, I don't know, a balance,
let's make it double, a balance, and
if it's active, it's going to be a bool.
So I'm going to print this,
just that, okay?
So print, I can print comma separator,
so the name, the balance, and isActive.
How we're going to call this function,
Well,
it's complaining here because I
need to convert this into a string,
because print receives only strings.
Something quick, a quick way to
convert anything to a string is to use
a string and then the dollar sign inside,
for example, okay?
That's a simple way to do that.
I might have other issues here,
but anyway.
So also, you can make separate prints,
because it will be simple to
understand now that I'm going to
change the signature of this file.
So how do you call your own function?
So if I wanna call print,
it's printCustomer, and
then you pass the arguments.
So, simple, right?
So I have Jane, with balance, and
it's not active, so
it's false, semi-colon.
So that's one way.
Okay, cool, but what we can do
is make some arguments optional.
How to make the arguments optional,
I can put them within curly braces.
If you do that, okay,
now that becomes a name argument,
and name arguments
are optional by default, okay?
If I want it to be mandatory,
I can use required.
You will get what this is in a minute.
So I added now, I have two standard
arguments and one named argument.
What's the difference now is
that the third one needs a name.
So I actually need to say isActive: false
So when you create a function,
you need to make a decision.
Do I want all the arguments as usual,
like classic arguments?
Do I want all of them with names?
Or I can make a mix.
The first argument is unnamed, and
then I can make the double also here.
I put them in the same curly braces, and
I can make them optional or required.
So now, 200 doesn't work,
and I can say balance:200.
The idea is that now we can make
the function call more semantic,
because now I say, I'm going to print
Jane, but it has a balance of 200,
and it's currently not active.
Does it make sense?
And you can make all of them like this,
named.
And when they are named, I can also change
the order in what I'm calling them.
Because they have a name,
they know where that goes.
So, of course,
balance will go to the second argument.
Does it makes sense?
I mean, it's not complicated.
It's different, and
Flutter is heavily using this, okay?
So we are going to see this a lot
within Flutter, named arguments.
Make sense?
>> What happens if you took Jane out?
>> It's not gonna work because
it will tell you, I mean,
the signature will tell you that there
is one positional argument expected.
And then you have positional arguments and
named arguments.
Positional arguments are the ones that
are based in their position, okay?
Now, we are not following the signature,
so it's not gonna comply.
It's mandatory to set the name as
the first positional argument.
>> So that string name is almost required.
>> Yeah, all of them are required.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, because I said so
with the required keywords.
So all of them are required,
but the last two arguments,
you can put them in any order,
and also you must name them.
That's the difference, okay?
To finish the function sanction,
we also have lambda expressions or
anonymous functions.
In that case, it's a variable
of type function, capital F.
Of course, I can use var as well,
instead of this.
And how does it work?
We're going to see this
a lot within Flutter.
So we will remember
this a couple of times.
We use parentheses with
the arguments declaration inside,
and then the code in CodeBlock.
So this is a function.
And it receives number and it's ready.
But this is a variable
containing a function.
So I can pass this as an argument, I can
receive the second return, one of these.
This is like writing in JavaScript
something like this, okay?
When you create an anonymous
function like that in JavaScript,
this is the equivalent, okay?
And because we have arrow
functions in JavaScript,
we also have arrow functions here in Dart.
The only difference is that we
use arrow functions with the same
fat arrow equals greater than only for
one expression.
So we use CodeBlock when you have several
sentences, several expressions.
And we use arrow functions like lambda,
quick lambda expressions,
only accepting one sentence
that has an implicit return.
So there is an implicit return here, okay?
So let me show you this.
If I wanna use the same
function without this,
I put this in a CodeBlock and
I add return.
And semicolon.
So, actually, semicolon here as well.
myArrow and myArrow2 are doing exactly
the same, but with different syntax.
Does it make sense?
So the arrow function is smaller and
faster.
>> I'm just thinking, I mean, this is only
the case where you actually have to use
the keyword function in this type.
>> Well, actually I don't need
to use the keyword function,
because I can create a variable or
a final with this.
That's not the keyword, that's a type.
>> Okay.
>> Okay, that's the type.
>> That's the type.
Bu it was a good one, right, because,
yeah, it seems like a keyword, but
it's not actually a keyword,
it's the type.
The variable or the mutable variable or
the constant is actually of type function.
But I can use implicit typing, and
now I'll need to set the type.
And you can see here that
the type of my arrow,
it's a function with receiving joins.
Yeah.
>> So the functions that you created
earlier, they don't have semicolons after
the function definition, but
these do, because they're a block?.
>> Yeah, so the question is, actually,
why do I have a semicolon there, right?
So because, think about this,
I have a variable integer, okay?
So I have my age, it's 4?
Do I need a semicolon at the end?
Yes.
Now, instead of being a 4,
it's a function.
So I open this O arrow function, so
how do you do this arrow function?
You do this.
So I still need the semicolon because
the semicolon goes to the var
declaration sentence.
If you do that in a separate lines,
you still need the semicolon anyway.
Okay, that's why you have the semicolon.
And when you have the normal function
declaration, you don't need a semicolon,
because you don't use
this as an expression,
it's not actually an expression,
the sentence within the language.
It's a declaration, so
it's something different.
Anyway, the good new is that the IDE
will tell you that if you're
missing the semicolon, okay?
And there's a quick fix,
that on Visual Studio Code is Ctrl + dot,
or Cmd + dot on the Mac.
And on Android Studio,
it's Alt+Enter or Option Return.
So if I say here Cmd + dot,
it will say, okay,
I wanna insert the semicolon, yeah, okay?
So the IDE will help you.
We are going to use the IDE lot to improve
our productivity in Flutter, okay?
Make sense?
Yeah.
>> Was there a reason why they do
a single expression in their fat arrow?
>> Where, which line?
>> So line 67, I'm kinda
comparing that to arrow functions
in JavaScript,
because you can have multiple commands.
>> Yeah, here,
if you use the arrow function,
>> Yeah,
>> It's only one expression that has
an implicit return.
>> Yeah, do you know the history
on that or why they do that?
>> I don't have the history, but
the thing is that if you don't want that,
you have this.
I think this is coming from other
languages, not from JavaScript, okay?
So I mean, if this was JavaScript,
it was like this.
While here, when you have multiple and
we have the code block, they say,
we don't need the arrow function,
we just remove the arrow sentence.
So if you ask me why they're not
using the arrow for the code block,
I don't have the answer for you.
But there are many languages that is
like this, that the arrow is only for
lambda expressions.
And the definition of a lambda expression,
on some languages,
is actually just one line,
just for functional programming.
And for that, you don't wanna
do multiple sentences, only one.
And I think we have to live with that,
picking different syntax for
different situations.